I think next I want to talk a little bit
about the explainability
of deep learning and
convolutional neural
networks specifically.
So far we played around with fully
connected neural networks, right, so
we went through this notebook.
We talked a little bit about information
theory and played around with principal
component analysis, looked at
the convolutional neural networks.
So yes, by the way,
if you want convolution kernels on
pooling probably will explain
what convolution is doing better.
So, let's actually run this notebook very,
very quickly.
So let's say we have
filter which looks like,
This, so actually let's put 1s here and
-1s here.
Right, so it's gonna positive
numbers at the top than just 0s and
negative numbers there.
And in my notebook I just have
couple of helper functions
which will do the convolutions and
will do pooling for me.
And I can simply visualize
what this particular
filter will do with this image, right.
So imagine that we just
grab some random image.
Well, in my case,
it was the image of one of our model.
And.
Okay, ignore this for now.
So what we will do we'll just
take this original image and
apply convolution with this
filter the one we defined.
Can you guess what it's gonna be doing?
It actually looking for
the vertical lines specifically, right.
So remember we had boxes here, but
all the horizontal lines
simply disappeared and
only this bright white color
means we have high intensity,
so only those vertical
lines were highlighted.
So basically filter defined
like this will find
all the vertical lines on our image,
right.
And if we do the pooling, Now you can
see previously we had 200 by 200 image
now we reduced to 100 by 100 but
still, the general idea preserved, right.
It's gonna more blur, I guess.
But we can still find where
we had those vertical lines.
We can find, for instance, areas
the same thing with horizontal lines.
Or, for instance,
if your filter is defined like
this 0s everywhere except
one point in the middle.
Can you guess what's this
will do with our image?
All right, let's just see.
It only will show the areas where we
have a lot of color, the same color.
So, for instance,
those areas they will have the highest,
well actually quite the opposite.
Those will be ignored and
the rest remember that white color
is the high intensity, right?
So basically everywhere
where we had white will be
highlighted and the black will be black.
So it helps us to find basically
those two points where we had
the black color the most so to speak.
So it's gonna really simple demonstration
of how kernels actually applied.
But once again it's not your job to
choose those kernels, those filters.
They will be automatically created when
you do the training of your convolution
neural network.
So once again, you will be providing
the original images and what the labels,
right, and then those 3 by 3
filters they will be readjusted.
So during the training phase the model
will figure out itself what filter
should look like to recognize a particular
features to get the correct prediction.
All right, so now the fun parts,
and we can experiment with this-
>> Can I interrupt with a question-
>> Yes, please.
>> Real quick?
So if we go back to the first
convolutional neural network
workbook you have there.
>> First?
You mean fully connected or convolution?
>> That one.
>> Okay.
>> And then go to the layers.
Okay, so you have the convolutional 2D-
>> Yep.
>> Feeding and max pooling 2D.
>> So the convolutional 2D is
identifying a 3 by 3 pattern if you
will-
>> Mm-hm.
>> Right?
>> 32 of them, mm-hm.
>> 32 of them over the 28 by 28
pixel image or-
>> So-
>> 32 different-
>> Filters.
>> Permutations or whatever of filters for
that 3 by 3 pixel.
>> Yes.
So basically we will have,
As the input we will have
this 28 by 28 image, right?
But then during the convolution we
will apply 32 different filters and
each of them will be 3 by 3 pixels.
And basically some of the filters
as I said probably will
learn how to distinguish diagonal line.
The next one probably vertical line and
so on and so forth.
So or
if we will be training on color images-
>> Okay.
>> It will learn even to
distinguish different colors.
>> So we're essentially looking for
the 32 strongest 3 by 3 patterns?
>> Yep.
>> Okay, and
then feeding that into the pooling 2D,
so we're taking each of those 3 by 3,
sorry,
we're taking the original 3 by 3-
>> Okay,
let me stop you here because I think I
will probably just Google [LAUGH] for
a nice picture of
demonstrating convolution.
On the first layer we simply recognize
those different patterns, right?
Like horizontal lines and all of that.
But if you combine those particular
patterns you can come up with
something more complex like
a particular facial parts, right.
So when you're doing convolution this 28
by 28 you're just taking this filter and
just going through all of
the original image, right.
And a convolutional operation, as I said,
is just multiplying the values of
the pixels and value just adding,
so the result will be 9,
sum of 9 multiplications.
But if you filter,
you can think about it like if you filter
look exactly like these three pixels.
Somewhere in the image this will return,
so
the layer is not gonna be looking
like the original picture.
It will only highlight
the places on the original image
where this particular feature was found.
So-
>> [INAUDIBLE] the filters matches
strongly?
>> Exactly.
>> Okay.
>> And basically,
if you now see that the result of
convolution from the first
filter showed you that you
have one kinda really high
intensity in this area but
second filter when it went
through all the pixels and
highlighted this area but
that's gonna be different results.
But we can take the inputs on
the next layer and say okay,
those areas are close to each other, and
the convolution will actually
see because they are connected.
Yeah, probably just drilling the
architecture would be easier to explain.
But yeah, highlighting the areas
on the higher level it will kind
of recognize that we have
a particular features recognized,
and they are sitting next to each other,
so
we can progress to more kind of
complex recognition if it makes sense.
>> I think so.
So I think what you're saying is like the
convolutional layer will say okay, right
here we have a strong match to filter one-
>> Yes.
>> Right next to it we have
a strong match to filter two.
>> Mm-hm.
>> And then in the pooling,
it'll say one and
two together that weighted highly,
and so we have a feature there.
>> With the pooling so, okay,
you recognized a particular feature when
you did the convolutional operation,
but the main task of pooling is
just reduce the dimensionality.
But spatially it means that
most probably their recognized
feature now gonna be really
close to each other.
So the next convolution
layer now can say okay,
this particular filter from
the previous operation
recognized horizontal lines this
one recognized vertical lines.
So having this and that together
it looks like something blah,
like eye, for instance, right, or a nose.
And then once again you kinda okay, we
recognize nose here we recognize eye here.
We're doing pooling and
once again it's gonna shrink
the dimensionality of the input
data to this next layer.
It's done to basically reduce
the amount of computation you're doing.
You can probably just ignore pooling
half times of convolutions, but
the problem is your filter is pretty
small, and we want to keep it that way.
But if you're doing pooling, the idea
is that you are reducing the size of
the image you're processing, right, so
you're doing less and less operations.
But the idea is that the most
useful information will be still
propagated, right?
Because we picking the maximum intensity
out of those like four pixels for
instance.
And it means that your next convolutional
layers will have larger and
larger view, so to speak,
on the original image.
So the view of your filter
to some degree increases.
But it's not looking at
the original filter it's just
looking on already recognized patterns.
And that's how you kinda
build a complex list.
That's how you can interpret what
the convolutional neural net is doing.
It's looking at something really, really
small and really detailed at the beginning
but then trying to make sense out of those
small details into more larger objects.